>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY NOVEMBER 1: ISIS
FIGHTERS REPORTEDLY COMMIT
ANOTHER MASSACRE IN IRAQ.
WHAT’S BEHIND THE LATEST SURGE
IN STOCK PRICES?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
HOW LOUISIANA MIGHT DETERMINE
CONTROL OF THE U.S. SENATE.
JEFF GREENFIELD EXAMINES THE
RACE AND THE POWER OF FAMILY
TIES.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOURWEEKEND.
FROM LOUISIANA PUBLIC
BROADCASTING IN BATON ROUGE,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
ISIS FIGHTERS HAVE REPORTEDLY
SLAUGHTERED DOZENS OF PEOPLE IN
IRAQ.
A LOCAL OFFICIAL SAID THE
EXTREMISTS LINED UP AT LEAST 50
MEN AND WOMEN AND SHOT THEM.
THE INCIDENT, WHICH OCCURRED
YESTERDAY IN A SMALL VILLAGE
WEST OF BAGHDAD, WAS REPORTEDLY
RETALIATION FOR RESISTANCE AFTER
THE MILITANTS SEIZED TERRITORY
LAST MONTH.
ALL TOLD, OFFICIALS ESTIMATE
THAT ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS HAVE
EXECUTED MORE THAN 300 SUNNI
TRIBESMEN IN THE AREA IN THE
PAST SEVERAL DAYS.
A LOCAL LEADER SAID EARLIER THIS
WEEK THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR IRAQI
AIR FORCE OFFICIALS TO
INTERVENE, BUT THEY NEVER DID.
>> (translated): I CONTACTED
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, AND THEY
PROMISED ME HELP.
THEY ASKED ME THE COORDINATES
AND PROMISED ME THAT THEY WILL
STRIKE THEM, BUT IT DID NOT
HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: AFGHANISTAN’S
NEW PRESIDENT, ASHRAF GHANI,
SAID TODAY HE STILL HOPES TO
WORK OUT A DEAL WITH THE
TALIBAN, DECLARING, "PEACE IS
NOT EASY, BUT IT IS MANDATORY."
THIS AFTER A SUICIDE CAR BOMBING
KILLED AT LEAST FOUR SOLDIERS
AND SEVEN POLICEMEN, AND WOUNDED
DOZENS OF CIVILIANS.
VIOLENCE IN AFGHANISTAN HAS
INCREASED AS FOREIGN TROOPS
LEAVE THAT COUNTRY.
FROM AFRICA TODAY, A LEADER OF
THE ISLAMIC MILITANT GROUP BOKO
HARAM DENIED THAT ANY DEAL IS
IN THE WORKS THAT WOULD LEAD TO
THE RELEASE OF THE 200
SCHOOLGIRLS TAKEN CAPTIVE LAST
SPRING.
IN FACT, HE CLAIMED THE GIRLS
HAD BEEN MARRIED OFF.
>> (translated): THEREFORE, I
AM TELLING YOU THAT WE HAVE NOT
MADE CEASE-FIRE WITH ANYONE.
ONLY BATTLE, HITTING, STRIKING
AND KILLING WITH GUNS IS WHAT WE
LONG FOR, LIKE A TASTY MEAL.
THIS IS WHAT WE BELIEVE IN AND
FIGHT FOR.
OUR GOAL IS TO SEE ONLY QURAN
BEING FOLLOWED ON EARTH.
THIS IS OUR FOCUS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN MALAYSIA, A
LAWSUIT HAS BEEN FILED AGAINST
MALAYSIA AIRLINES AND THE
GOVERNMENT, ACCUSING THEM OF
NEGLIGENCE IN CONNECTION WITH
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF FLIGHT 370
NEARLY EIGHT MONTHS AGO.
THE SUIT, THE FIRST IN THAT
COUNTRY FOLLOWING THE DISASTER,
WAS FILED ON BEHALF OF A 13-
YEAR-OLD AND AN 11-YEAR-OLD
WHOSE FATHER WAS ON BOARD THE
FLIGHT.
YOU’LL RECALL THAT THE PLANE
DISAPPEARED IN MARCH EN ROUTE
FROM KUALA LUMPUR TO CHINA.
239 PEOPLE WERE ON BOARD.
CANADA HAS SUSPENDED VISA
APPLICATIONS FOR RESIDENTS OF
THE WEST AFRICAN NATIONS HIT
HARDEST BY THE EBOLA OUTBREAK,
BUT THE GOVERNMENT SAID IT WILL
ALLOW CANADIAN RESIDENTS
TREATING EBOLA PATIENTS IN
AFRICA TO RETURN.
AUSTRALIA IMPOSED EVEN TOUGHER
GUIDELINES EARLIER IN THE WEEK.
IN NEW YORK, CRAIG SPENCER, THE
DOCTOR BEING TREATED FOR EBOLA
AFTER RETURNING FROM WEST
AFRICA, IS SAID TO BE IMPROVING.
BELLEVUE HOSPITAL SAID TODAY HIS
CONDITION HAD BEEN UPGRADED FROM
SERIOUS TO STABLE.
A FORMER U.S. MARINE HELD IN A
MEXICAN JAIL FOR SEVEN MONTHS
HAS BEEN SET FREE.
RETIRED MARINE SERGEANT ANDREW
TAMORISI WAS TAKEN INTO CUSTODY
BY MEXICAN CUSTOMS OFFICIALS ON
WEAPONS CHARGES ON MARCH 31.
AT THE TIME, AGENTS SAID THEY
FOUND THREE GUNS IN THE TRUNK OF
HIS CAR.
TAMORISI SAID HE INADVERTENTLY
CROSSED INTO MEXICO AFTER MAKING
A WRONG TURN ON A CALIFORNIA
HIGHWAY.
HE SUFFERS FROM P.T.S.D. AND
REPORTEDLY TRIED TO COMMIT
SUICIDE DURING HIS CAPTIVITY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND SENATE
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL
TOOK TO THE AIRWAVES TODAY TO
MAKE THE CASE FOR THEIR
RESPECTIVE PARTIES IN NEXT
TUESDAY’S MIDTERM ELECTIONS.
>> THANKS TO THE WORK WE’VE ALL
PUT IN, OUR ECONOMY HAS COME A
LONG WAY THESE PAST SIX YEARS.
OVER THE PAST 55 MONTHS OUR
BUSINESSES HAVE ADDED 10.3
MILLION NEW JOBS.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SIX YEARS,
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS BELOW
6%.
>> UNDER A NEW MAJORITY, OUR
FOCUS WOULD BE ON PASSING
LEGISLATION THAT IMPROVES THE
ECONOMY, THAT MAKES IT EASIER
FOR AMERICANS TO FIND JOBS, AND
THAT HELPS RESTORE AMERICANS’
CONFIDENCE IN THEIR COUNTRY AND
THEIR GOVERNMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: BOTH PARTIES
ARE INTENSIFYING THEIR EFFORT TO
TURN OUT THE VOTE IN THE DAYS
LEADING UP TO THE ELECTION.
IN WASHINGTON STATE, NORTH OF
SEATTLE, ANOTHER TEEN WHO WAS
SHOT BY A CLASSMATE IN THE
SCHOOL CAFETERIA A WEEK AGO
FRIDAY HAS DIED.
SHAYLEE CHUCKULNASKIT WAS 14.
THE INCIDENT ALSO CLAIMED THE
LIVES OF TWO OTHER TEENAGE
GIRLS.
THE 15-YEAR-OLD GUNMAN
KILLED HIMSELF AFTER THE
SHOOTINGS.
ACCORDING TO THE SHERIFF,
THE SHOOTER LURED HIS VICTIMS
TO THE CAFETERIA WITH A TEXT
MESSAGE, THEN SHOT THEM.
TWO OTHER VICTIMS REMAIN
HOSPITALIZED.
NEW YORK CITY HAS AGREED TO PAY
$2.25 MILLION TO THE FAMILY OF A
HOMELESS VETERAN WHO WAS FOUND
DEAD IN A CITY JAIL.
JEROME MURDOUGH, A FORMER
MARINE, SUFFERED FROM
SCHIZOPHRENIA.
WHEN HIS BODY WAS DISCOVERED,
THE TEMPERATURE IN HIS CELL WAS
101 DEGREES.
HE HAD NOT BEEN CHECKED ON FOR
AT LEAST FOUR HOURS.
MURDOUGH WAS 56.
AND IN A SIGN OF THE TIMES, AS
AMERICANS GET HEAVIER AND
HEAVIER, A MICHIGAN COMPANY THAT
MANUFACTURES CRASH TEST DUMMIES
SAYS IT IS DEVISING NEW MODELS
THAT WEIGH MORE.
THE IDEA IS TO BETTER REPRESENT
THE AVERAGE BODY IN A CRASH.
ONE OF ITS NEW MODELS WEIGHS 273
POUNDS.
STUDIES SHOW THOSE WHO ARE OBESE
ARE MUCH MORE SUSCEPTIBLE TO
INJURIES DURING CRASHES.
>> Sreenivasan: STOCK PRICES
JUST KEEP GOING UP AND UP.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
CLOSED AT A RECORD HIGH
YESTERDAY, AND SO DID A CLOSELY
WATCHED BROADER INDEX, THE S&P
500.
TO HELP EXPLAIN WHAT’S BEHIND
THE LATEST SURGE ON WALL STREET,
WE ARE JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE FROM
RICHMOND VIRGINIA BY ROBEN
FARZAD.
HE IS THE HOST OF THE RADIO
PROGRAM, "FULL DISCLOSURE."
A LOT OF PEOPLE ON WALL STREET
ARE TALKING ABOUT THE LATEST
BUYING EVENTS IN JAPAN.
THEIR STOCK INDEX, THE NIKKEI,
WAS UP NEARLY 5% JUST YESTERDAY
AFTER THEIR GOVERNMENT THERE
ANNOUNCED A NEW STIMULUS
PROGRAM.
SO WHAT DID IT DO AND WHY DOES
THAT MATTER HERE?
>> BECAUSE WE’RE SO CONNECTED AT
THIS POINT.
ALL THESE CENTRAL BANKS ACROSS
THE GLOBE ARE FLOODING THE PLANE
WITH MONEY TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE
TO GO OUT AND TAKE RISKS, TAKE
CHANCES.
THE BANK OF JAPAN ACTUALLY GOES
OUT AND BUYS EQUITIES IN THE
JAPANESE STOCK MARKET, WHICH
HAS BEEN MORIBUND FOR SO LONG.
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES, THE
FEDERAL RESERVE HAS KEPT
INTEREST RATES NEAR ZERO FOR THE
BETTER PART OF SIX YEARS NOW,
AND ON TOP OF THAT, THEY HAVE
$3.5 TRILLION OF EMERGENCY BOND
BUYING MEASURES.
SO THERE’S A LOT OF CHEAP MONEY
GOING AROUND STOKING PEOPLE TO
GET INTO REAL ESTATE AND RISKIER
BONDS AND RISKIER ASSETS LIKE
STOCKS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS WEEK WE
LEARNED OUR OWN ECONOMY GREW
3.5% DURING THE THIRD QUARTER OF
2014.
HOW MUCH OF A FACTOR IS THAT IN
THE MARKET’S RECENT RISE?
>> THE MARKETS REALLY RIGHT NOW
ARE LOOKING AT THE BIG
INTERVENING VARIABLE, WHICH IS
THE FEDERAL RESERVE’S LARGESS.
LIKE I SAID, SIX YEARS OF
EMERGENCY LOW INTEREST RATES--
CAN ANYBODY REMEMBER WHEN IT
COST 6% OR 7% TO TAKE OUT A
MORTGAGE OR WHEN YOU COULD GET A
LITTLE OVER FOUR POINTS ON A
GOVERNMENT BOND OR TREASURY
BOND?
IT’S JUST NOT REALLY IN THE
INSTITUTIONAL MEMORY.
WHEN YOU GET NOT TOO HOT BUT NOT
TOO COLD ECONOMIC INDICATORS AND
BY EXTENSION THE FEDERAL RESERVE
IS TELEGRAPHING THAT IT’S
GOING TO SIT ON ITS HANDS, MAYBE
WELL INTO 2015, THERE’S THIS
PERCEPTION THERE’S-- THAT
THERE’S MORE ROOM TO RUN FOR THE
MARKET.
>> Sreenivasan: OCTOBER WAS A
PRETTY WILD RIDE ON WALL STREET.
EARLIER LAST MONTH, THE DOW HAD
ITS BIGGEST WEEKLY DECLINE IN
MORE THAN TWO YEARS.
THEN IT CAME ROARING BACK.
WHAT’S BEHIND ALL THIS
VOLATILITY?
>> AGAIN, WHAT’S BEHIND THE LACK
OF VOLATILITY OVER THE PAST
THREE OR FOR YEARS?
WE HAVE DODGED SO MANY BULLETS
FROM 2008 AND 2009, WHERE
THERE WAS AN OUTRIGHT COLLAPSE.
I BELIEVE THE MARKET,
PEAK-TO-TROUGH, FELL 55%, 57%.
AND THEN GREECE COLLAPSES AND
THEN WE HAVE THE DEBT SHOWDOWN
AND DEBT DEBACLE HERE, AND THE
FISCAL CLIFF.
AND NOW YOU HAVE WORRIES ABOUT
ELECTORAL UNCERTAINTY AND THERE
ARE WHISPERS OF GLOBAL
DEFLATION.
THERE ARE LOTS OF THINGS AT
PLAY, AND I THINK INVESTORS HAVE
DEVELOPED A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
SCAR TISSUE.
THE ONES THAT ARE STILL IN THE
MARKET REALIZE THAT WHEN YOU SEE
SOMETHING APPROACHING A
CORRECTION-- AND WE DIDN’T EVEN
HIT A FULL CORRECTION-- THAT
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING
TO STEP IN AND BUY.
>> Sreenivasan: SPEAKING OF
PARTICIPATION, WE CAME ACROSS
INTERESTING NUMBERS SHOWING A
SPECIFICALLY LOWER PERCENTAGE OF
AMERICANS OWN STOCK NOW THAN
THEY DID A DOZEN YEARS AGO.
SO WHO DROPPED OUT, AND WHAT ARE
THE BIGGER REPERCUSSIONS?
>> YOU WORRY ABOUT THE SOLVENCY
OF SOCIAL SECURITY AND PEOPLE’S
RETIREMENTS IN GENERAL IN AN ERA
WHERE GOVERNMENT DEBTS MAYBE ARE
NOT SUSTAINABLE.
PEOPLE REALLY EN MASSE LOOKED AT
WHAT HAPPENED IN 2000, WITH Y2K.
THEY GOT THEIR HEARTS BROKEN
WITH THE TECH CRASH; AND AGAIN
IN 2007, WHEN THEY HESITATINGLY
CAME BACK TO THE MARKET, WE GET
THE MOTHER OF ALL ECONOMIC
COLLAPSES WITH THE GREAT
RECESSION AND THE MARKET GETTING
CUT IN HALF.
AND SO IT’S KIND OF LIKE A CASE
OF "FOOL ME THRICE"-- "I’M NOT
GOING TO BE THAT SUCKER."
EVEN WITH THE NUMBERS BEING AS
SPECTACULAR AS THEY ARE IN THIS
FIVE-PLUS-YEAR BULL MARKET,
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE SAYING
NO, I’M NOT GOING BACK TO THAT
ASSET CLASS.
YOU’RE GOING TO HAVE TO SHOW ME
MUCH MORE SECURITY AND MUCH
BETTER RISK REWARD FOR ME TO GET
MY MONEY BACK, AND THAT’S REALLY
NOT HELPING THEIR CASE.
THEY’RE GOING TO NEED THE MARKET
TO HELP THEM INTO RETIREMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ROBEN FARZAD, THE HOST OF THE
RADIO PROGRAM "FULL DISCLOSURE,"
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
ELECTION DAY IS, OF COURSE, JUST
THREE DAYS AWAY, AND IT’S STILL
UNCLEAR WHICH PARTY WILL END UP
IN CONTROL OF THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
THAT MIGHT DEPEND ON WHAT
HAPPENS HERE IN LOUISIANA, WHERE
MOST POLLS SHOW THE DEMOCRAT
INCUMBENT RUNNING SLIGHTLY
BEHIND HER REPUBLICAN
CHALLENGER.
WILL SENATOR MARY LANDRIEU’S
TIES TO PRESIDENT OBAMA HELP
BRING HER DOWN?
OR, LIKE ENDANGERED DEMOCRATS IN
ARKANSAS, COLORADO AND ALASKA,
WILL HER PROMINENT FAMILY NAME
HELP HER RETAIN HER SEAT?
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD TRAVELED HERE
RECENTLY TO EXAMINE LOUISIANA’S
SENATE RACE AND TO EXPLORE HOW
AMERICAN POLITICS BECAME A
FAMILY BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: IT IS A VERY
DIFFERENT PLACE.
ITS TERRAIN.
ITS ARCHITECTURE.
ITS FOOD.
ITS MUSIC.
HOW IT CELEBRATES.
HOW IT MOURNS.
BUT FOR ALL THAT IS UNIQUE ABOUT
LOUISIANA, ITS U.S. SENATE RACE
IS STRIKINGLY SIMILAR TO
CONTESTS FROM ONE END OF THE
COUNTRY TO THE OTHER.
IN SO MANY OF THESE STATES,
DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENTS WITH A
STRONG HISTORY OF FAMILY
POLITICAL SUCCESS FIND
THEMSELVES IN GRAVE PERIL IN
GOOD MEASURE BECAUSE OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THEIR OWN PARTY.
MARY LANDRIEU, SEEKING HER
FOURTH TERM IN THE UNITED STATES
SENATE, HAS BEEN IN ELECTIVE
OFFICE FOR ALMOST 35 YEARS, MORE
THAN HALF HER LIFE.
SHE’S PART OF A FAMILY THAT’S
BEEN IN OFFICE IN THIS STATE FOR
MORE THAN HALF A CENTURY.
HER FATHER, MOON, WAS FIRST
ELECTED TO THE LEGISLATURE IN
1960.
HE LATER SERVED AS MAYOR OF NEW
ORLEANS AND AS HUD SECRETARY
UNDER PRESIDENT CARTER.
>> I WANT TO TELL YOU ABOUT MY
BABY SISTER.
>> Reporter: HER BROTHER MITCH,
WHO ENTERED POLITICS MORE THAN
25 YEARS AGO, IS NOW MAYOR OF
NEW ORLEANS.
>> MARY GOT ELECTED WHEN SHE WAS
23 YEARS OLD.
I GOT ELECTED WHEN I WAS 27.
I THINK COLLECTIVELY EVERYBODY
IN MY FAMILY SERVED FOR ABOUT
100 YEARS.
>> Reporter: BUT HER POLITICAL
FUTURE IS IN JEOPARDY.
SHE’S IN A VERY CLOSE RACE WITH
PHYSICIAN-TURNED-U.S.
CONGRESSMAN BILL CASSIDY, WHOSE
CAMPAIGN SEEKS TO TIE LANDRIEU
TO A MEMBER OF HER POLITICAL
FAMILY.
>> HE PROMISED TO CHANGE AMERICA
BUT HE’S CHANGING IT FOR THE
WORSE, AND MARY LANDRIEU GOES
RIGHT ALONG WITH IT.
>> BARACK OBAMA AND MARY
LANDRIEU DIDN’T LEVEL WITH
YOU ABOUT OBAMACARE.
>> SHE IS THE LAST STATEWIDE-
ELECTED DEMOCRAT IN LOUISIANA.
>> Reporter: CLANCY DUBOS HAS
BEEN COVERING THE STATE’S
POLITICS FOR MORE THAN 40 YEARS.
>> AND SHE’S GOT BARACK OBAMA ON
TOP OF THAT.
AND IT’S NOT IMPOSSIBLE FOR HER
TO WIN, BY ANY STRETCH, BUT THIS
IS BY FAR THE TOUGHEST ELECTION
SHE’S EVER HAD.
>> HELLO, EVERYBODY!
>> Reporter: IT’S EXACTLY WHAT’S
HAPPENING TO DEMOCRATS IN STATE
AFTER STATE.
AS WITH GEORGE W. BUSH BACK IN
2006, THE PRESIDENT’S
UNPOPULARITY-- HE’S BARELY ABOVE
40% NATIONALLY AND WELL BELOW
THAT IN KEY SENATE
BATTLEGROUNDS-- IS PROVING TO BE
A VERY HEAVY BURDEN.
IN ALASKA, SENATOR MARK BEGICH,
SON OF A CONGRESSMAN, IS BEING
HAMMERED BY DAN SULLIVAN FOR HIS
VOTES SUPPORTING PRESIDENT
OBAMA.
>> MARK BEGICH PRETTY MUCH VOTED
WITH THE PRESIDENT ON JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: IN COLORADO,
SENATOR MARK UDALL, SON OF A
CONGRESSMAN, NEPHEW OF AN
INTERIOR SECRETARY, IS TRAILING
CORY GARDNER IN THE POLLS.
>> SENATOR UDALL’S BRAND OF
POLITICS DIVIDES US.
IT KEEPS US FROM FIXING OBAMA’S
FAILURES.
>> Reporter: IN ARKANSAS,
SENATOR MARK PRYOR, WHOSE FATHER
WAS GOVERNOR AND SENATOR, IS
STRUGGLING AGAINST CONGRESSMAN
TOM COTTON.
>> A VOTE FOR MARK PRYOR IS A
VOTE FOR MORE OF BARACK OBAMA’S
POLICIES.
>> WHAT A WAY TO WAKE UP IN THE
MORNING!
>> Reporter: WHAT LINKS THESE
CAMPAIGNS IS THE SAME QUESTION:
CAN THE FAMILY TIES OF THESE
INCUMBENTS HELP DEFINE THEM AS
LOCAL CHAMPIONS, RATHER THAN AS
ALLIES OF AN UNPOPULAR
PRESIDENT?
THEY ALSO POINT TO A STRIKING
FACT ABOUT AMERICAN POLITICAL
LIFE.
TO A REMARKABLE EXTENT, IT IS
AND ALWAYS HAS BEEN A FAMILY
BUSINESS.
IT’S NOT JUST THESE ENDANGERED
DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENTS.
ANDREW CUOMO, CRUISING TO A
SECOND TERM AS NEW YORK’S
GOVERNOR, IS THE SON OF A FORMER
GOVERNOR.
SO IS CALIFORNIA’S JERRY BROWN,
HEADING FOR A COMFORTABLE RE-
ELECTION 56 YEARS AFTER HIS DAD
PAT FIRST WON THE JOB.
SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO, THE LIKELY
NEXT REPUBLICAN SENATOR FROM
WEST VIRGINIA, IS THE DAUGHTER
OF EX-GOVERNOR ARCH MOORE.
GEORGIA’S MICHELLE NUNN,
DAUGHTER OF EX-SENATOR SAM NUNN,
IS FIGHTING FOR A SENATE SEAT
AGAINST DAVID PERDUE, COUSIN OF
A FORMER GOVERNOR.
WHILE JASON CARTER, GRANDSON OF
THE EX-PRESIDENT, IS IN A CLOSE
RACE TO BE THAT STATE’S NEXT
GOVERNOR.
ALL TOLD, AT LEAST THREE DOZEN
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE HAD
FAMILY MEMBERS WHO’VE HELD
POLITICAL OFFICE BEFORE THEM.
THIS MAY SEEM AT ODDS WITH ONE
OF AMERICA’S FOUNDING IDEAS.
THE UNITED STATES WAS BORN IN
PART IN REBELLION AGAINST FAMILY
PRIVILEGE; OUR CONSTITUTION
FORBIDS TITLES OF NOBILITY.
BUT IN FACT, AMERICA HAS HAD A
CLASS OF POLITICAL NOBILITY
ALMOST FROM THE BEGINNING.
FROM THE ADAMS, TO THE
HARRISONS; TO THE ROOSEVELTS OF
NEW YORK; TO THE TAFTS OF OHIO;
TO THE LONGS OF LOUISIANA; TO
THE KENNEDYS OF MASSACHUSETTS;
TO THE BUSHES OF CONNECTICUT,
TEXAS AND FLORIDA.
ONE GENERATION OF POLITICIANS
SEEMS TO BEGET ANOTHER.
MAYBE, SAYS MOON LANDRIEU, IT’S
SIMPLY LIKE ANY OTHER BUSINESS.
>> WELL, I THINK IT’S NOT TOO
DIFFERENT FROM THAT OF ANY
PROFESSION.
I’M NOT TRYING TO RAISE POLITICS
TO A PROFESSION, BUT IF YOU’RE A
DOCTOR OR A DENTIST OR A LAWYER,
YOUR KIDS MOSTLY INCLINE THAT
WAY.
WHEN I RAN, MY CHILDREN WERE
YOUNG SO WE DIDN’T HESITATE TO
TAKE THEM ON DOOR KNOCKING, AND
THEY GOT INTO THAT POSTURE.
>> Reporter: BUT MAYBE, SAYS
N.Y.U. PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
CAMPAIGN MANAGEMENT JEANNE
ZAINO, IT’S MORE THAN THAT.
>> ON THE ONE HAND WE CELEBRATE
THE OLD HORATIO ALGER MYTH THAT
IF YOU WORK REALLY HARD YOU CAN
MAKE IT IN THE UNITED STATES
REGARDLESS OF WHO YOU ARE AND
REGARDLESS OF WHERE YOU CAME
FROM.
BUT BY THE SAME TOKEN, WE HAVE,
YOU KNOW, FOR A LONG TIME
EMBRACED THESE KIND OF POLITICAL
FAMILIES.
AND THE FAMILY NAME IS SOMETHING
OF A BRAND NAME, AND IT REALLY
HELPS YOU IN THE ELECTORAL
PROCESS TO HAVE THE NAME
KENNEDY, TO NOW HAVE THE NAME
CLINTON, TO HAVE THE NAME BUSH.
>> Reporter: ONE KEY ADVANTAGE:
THERE’S NOTHING LIKE A WELL-
KNOWN NAME TO CUT THROUGH THE
CLAMOR OF COMPETING CANDIDATES.
AND AT A TIME WHEN CAMPAIGNS ARE
MORE EXPENSIVE THAN EVER-- THESE
MIDTERMS ARE ESTIMATED TO COST
SOME $4 BILLION-- A FAMILIAR
FAMILY NAME MAY HELP OPEN NOT
JUST DOORS, BUT WALLETS.
IN A PROCESS WHICH TAKES A LOT
OF MONEY AND A LOT OF
CONNECTIONS, CERTAINLY TODAY, IT
HELPS TO BE ABLE TO SAY TO A
DONOR YOU’RE GOING TO NEED TO
RELY ON THAT, YOU KNOW, "I’M A
KENNEDY, I’M A CLINTON, I’M A
BUSH."
>> MY FAMILY AND MY FAITH HELPED
ME THROUGH THE ROUGH TIMES.
>> Reporter: THAT’S CLEARLY HOW
THE EMBATTLED DEMOCRATS SEE IT.
AD AFTER AD FEATURES FAMILY
MEMBERS IN ALASKA...
>> MARK WAS TEN WHEN HE LOST HIS
FATHER.
>> Reporter: ...IN GEORGIA...
>> BECAUSE IT’S TIME TO BRING
SOME COMMON SENSE TO WASHINGTON.
>> AND I THINK YOU’VE GOT A
PRETTY GOOD SHOT.
>> WHEN YOU HAVE NINE CHILDREN
YOU’RE BOUND TO HAVE ONE WHO IS
HARDHEADED.
>> DAD, YOU’RE ONE TO TALK.
>> Reporter: ...AND IN
LOUISIANA.
LIKE SO MANY OF HER
ENDANGERED DEMOCRATIC SENATE
COLLEAGUES, LANDRIEU WANTS TO
TURN THE ARGUMENT AWAY FROM
WASHINGTON AND BACK HOME,
SPECIFICALLY TO HER CLOUT.
AS CHAIR OF THE SENATE’S ENERGY
AND NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE,
SHE SAYS, SHE CAN DO MORE TO
PROTECT LOUISIANA’S CRITICAL OIL
AND GAS INDUSTRIES.
BILL CASSIDY HAS A DIFFERENT
VIEW, WHICH INCLUDES ANOTHER
POINTED REMINDER OF HIS FAVORITE
TARGET.
>> SENATOR LANDRIEU AS CHAIRMAN
OF THE ENERGY COMMITTEE HAS BEEN
UNABLE TO GET A FLOOR VOTE ON A
SINGLE PIECE OF LEGISLATION.
FOR EIGHT MONTHS SHE’S BEEN
INEFFECTIVE AT ANYTHING BUT
WAVING THROUGH BARACK OBAMA’S
APPOINTEES WHO ATTEMPT TO
REGULATE OUR JOBS.
I WILL SAY, WHEN REPUBLICANS
CONTROL THE SENATE, ANY
REPUBLICAN AS CHAIR OF THE
ENERGY COMMITTEE IS BETTER FOR
OUR JOBS THAN HARRY REID AND
SENATOR LANDRIEU.
>> IT’S NOT ABOUT WHO THE
PRESIDENT IS.
IT’S ABOUT WHO YOUR SENATOR IS.
IT’S WHO CAN FIGHT FOR YOU EVEN,
YOU KNOW, WITH A PRESIDENT THAT
MAY NOT BE AS BROADLY POPULAR,
EVEN WHEN KATRINA HITS, EVEN
WHEN RITA HITS, EVEN WHEN THE
RIGHT-WING TEA PARTY COMES AT
YOU AND WANTS TO TEAR THE
GOVERNMENT DOWN.
SO, I FEEL VERY, YOU KNOW, YES,
IT WOULD BE WONDERFUL TO HAVE,
YOU KNOW, A PARTY AND A
PRESIDENT THAT WAS MORE POPULAR,
BUT THIS IS NOT MY TOUGHEST
RACE.
>> Reporter: THERE IS ONE
DISTINCTIVE LOUISIANA TWIST TO
THIS CAMPAIGN THAT COULD PROVE
HIGHLY SIGNIFICANT.
ALONE AMONG THE 50 STATES, WHAT
LOUISIANA WILL HOLD ON NOVEMBER
4 IS ACTUALLY A PRIMARY, AN
OPEN SO-CALLED "JUNGLE PRIMARY"
IN WHICH EVERY SENATE CANDIDATE
REGARDLESS OF PARTY APPEARS ON
THE SAME BALLOT.
IF NO ONE GETS 50%, THEN THE TOP
TWO FINISHERS COMPETE IN A
DECEMBER 6 RUNOFF.
AND A RUNOFF IS ALL BUT CERTAIN.
RETIRED AIR FORCE COLONEL ROB
MANESS, RUNNING AS ANOTHER
REPUBLICAN IN THE RACE, IS
LIKELY TO GET CLOSE TO 10% OF
THE VOTE, WHICH MEANS THAT IT
WOULD TAKE A MONTH TO FIND OUT
WHO IS LOUISIANA’S NEXT SENATOR
AND MAYBE WHO CONTROLS THE
UNITED STATES SENATE.
MEANWHILE, EX-FLORIDA GOVERNOR
JEB BUSH, SON OF ONE PRESIDENT,
BROTHER OF ANOTHER, MULLS A
POSSIBLE PRESIDENTIAL BID OF HIS
OWN, AS HIS SON GEORGE P. BUSH
HEADS TOWARD LIKELY ELECTION AS
TEXAS LAND COMMISSIONER.
KENTUCKY SENATOR RAND PAUL, SON
OF A FORMER TEXAS CONGRESSMAN,
IS ALSO EYEING THE WHITE HOUSE
AS IS THE SPOUSE OF ANOTHER
FORMER PRESIDENT.
AND ROBERT KENNEDY’S 34-YEAR-OLD
GRANDSON JOSEPH KENNEDY III IS
ON HIS WAY TO ANOTHER TERM IN
THE U.S. HOUSE.
>> ONE, TWO, THREE.
>> Reporter: SO WHATEVER THE
FATE OF LANDRIEU AND THE OTHER
EMBATTLED SECOND GENERATION
DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENTS, THE
FAMILY BUSINESS OF AMERICAN
POLITICS IS VERY MUCH ALIVE AND
WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: ONLY MONTHS AGO,
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN
CROSSED INTO THE UNITED STATES
FROM CENTRAL AMERICA, CREATING
WHAT PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED A
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
MANY OF THOSE CHILDREN ARE NOW
LIVING WITH RELATIVES IN THIS
COUNTRY, PENDING IMMIGRATION
HEARINGS.
A FEW THOUSAND ENDED UP HERE IN
LOUISIANA, WHERE A CATHOLIC
ORGANIZATION HAS COME TO THEIR
AID DESPITE STRONG POLITICAL
OPPOSITION.
SHAUNA SANFORD OF LOUISIANA
PUBLIC TELEVISION HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporter: HERE, IN THE
CAPITOL CITY OF BATON ROUGE,
CATHOLIC CHARITIES DIOCESE HAS
MOBILIZED TO HELP A FEW THOUSAND
CHILDREN WHO CROSSED THE
SOUTHWESTERN U.S. BORDER AND
ENDED UP IN LOUISIANA.
>> I THINK THAT THE CHILDREN AND
THEIR FAMILIES ARE JUST CAUGHT
IN A POWER STRUGGLE BETWEEN
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
COMPETING OVER THE HISPANIC
VOTE.
IT MAKES ME WANT TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: DAVID AGUILLARD IS
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
DIOCESE.
IS IT A MORAL OBLIGATION?
>> WE HAVE A PARTICULAR GOSPEL
MISSION TO REACH OUT BASED ON
OUR CHRISTIAN BELIEFS, OUR
CHRISTIAN VALUES.
AND WE WANT TO DO THAT WITHIN
THE CONFINES OF THE LAW.
>> Reporter: IN RESPONSE, THE
DIOCESE HAS ESTABLISHED THE
LOUISIANA ESPERANZA PROJECT.
>> UNLIKE OTHER COURT SYSTEMS
AND LEGAL PROCESSES IN OUR
COUNTRY, WHEN A PERSON’S LIFE IS
AT STAKE LIKE IN CRIMINAL COURT,
THERE IS A RIGHT TO A PUBLIC
DEFENDER.
FOR THESE CHILDREN, THERE IS A
RIGHT TO ACCESS THE SYSTEM, BUT
THERE IS NOT A RIGHT OF BEING
SUPPLIED LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
>> Reporter: THE PROGRAM, FUNDED
TO THE TUNE OF ABOUT $1 MILLION
PER YEAR, PROVIDES ATTORNEYS AND
OTHER LEGAL ASSISTANCE TO THE
CHILDREN AND THEIR FAMILIES FOR
FREE OR AT A REDUCED COST, BUT
IT’S VERY SLOW GOING.
THERE AREN’T ENOUGH ATTORNEYS TO
REPRESENT ALL OF THE CHILDREN
WHOSE CASES HAVE TO BE HEARD IN
FEDERAL IMMIGRATION COURT.
AND THAT COURT HAS BEEN WITHOUT
A JUDGE FOR MONTHS NOW, SO THE
ONLY TIME CASES CAN BE HEARD IS
WHEN AN IMMIGRATION JUDGE COMES
TO LOUISIANA FROM ANOTHER STATE.
BUT SOME PROMINENT POLITICIANS
DON’T BELIEVE THE CHILDREN
SHOULD BE IN LOUISIANA IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
LOUISIANA’S REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR,
BOBBY JINDAL, HAS BLASTED THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FOR THE
RECENT INFLUX, CALLING IT A
FAILURE TO SECURE THE U.S.
BORDER.
LIKE JINDAL, SOME LAWMAKERS ALSO
BELIEVE THAT THE CHILDREN SHOULD
BE SENT BACK TO THEIR HOME
COUNTRIES.
>> WE HAVE OUR OWN PROBLEMS TO
DEAL WITH HERE, WITH POVERTY AND
THESE KINDS OF ISSUES.
IT’S INCUMBENT ON THOSE
GOVERNMENTS TO TAKE CARE OF
THEIR CITIZENS.
>> OUR COUNTRY HAS RECOGNIZED
AND HAS PASSED LAWS TO PROTECT
CHILDREN FROM CENTRAL AMERICA
WHO FLEE HERE BECAUSE OF THE
VIOLENCE AND BECAUSE OF THE
SITUATIONS IN THEIR HOME
COUNTRIES.
>> Reporter: IN KEEPING WITH ITS
GOSPEL MISSION, THE DIOCESE SAYS
IT WILL KEEP WORKING TO RESOLVE
THE CHILDREN’S CASES.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS 40 YEARS
AGO THIS WEEK THAT THE MAN OFTEN
KNOWN SIMPLY AS "CHAMP"
RECLAIMED THAT TITLE.
MUHAMMAD ALI KNOCKED OUT THE
PREVIOUSLY UNBEATEN GEORGE
FOREMAN IN A BOUT STAGED IN
AFRICA KNOWN AS THE RUMBLE IN
THE JUNGLE.
I.T.N.’S ROBERT MOORE LOOKS BACK
AT THE NIGHT ALI BEAT THE ODDS
AND RECAPTURED THE CROWN.
>> Reporter: IN THE CITY WHERE
MUHAMMED ALI GREW UP AND WHERE
HE STILL LIVES, HIS FRIENDS ARE
REMEMBERING THAT EPIC NIGHT OF
40 YEARS AGO.
THE FIGHT IS STILL KNOWN HERE AS
THE GREATEST SPORTING CONTEST
OF THE 20th CENTURY.
>> THESE AFRICANS THINK ALL OF
US ARE UGLY!
>> Reporter: IT TOOK PLACE HALF
A WORLD AWAY IN THE HEART OF
AFRICA, THE UNLIKELIEST OF
SETTINGS FOR AN ALL-AMERICAN
HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP BOUT.
>>ALI BOMAYE!
ALI BOMAYE!
>> THAT MEANS "KILLER."
DANCING WITH GEORGE.
WE’RE GOING TO RUMBLE IN
IN THE JUNGLE.
>> Reporter: AND ALI’S PLAYFUL
BOASTS CAPTIVATED ALL THOSE
WATCHING AT HOME.
>> LISTEN, I’M GOING TO FLOAT
LIKE A BUTTERFLY AND STING LIKE
A BEE.
GEORGE CAN’T HIT WHAT HIS EYES
CAN’T SEE.
>> Reporter: THE FIGHT ITSELF
LASTED EIGHT BRUISING ROUNDS.
FORMAN WAS THE OVERWHELMING
FAVORITE, BUT ALI ABSORBED THE
PUNCHES AND EMERGED THE WINNER,
REGAINING HIS CROWN SEVEN YEARS
AFTER HIS ARREST FOR REFUSING TO
SERVE IN VIETNAM.
SUDDENLY, ALI WAS ON TOP OF THE
WORLD AGAIN.
>> ALL OF MY CRITICS, I TOLD YOU
ALL THAT I WAS THE GREATEST OF
ALL-TIME.
>> Reporter: PEOPLE STILL
DEBATE WHY THE RUMBLE IN THE
JUNGLE BECAME SUCH A FAMOUS
SPORTING AND EVEN CULTURAL EVENT
IN AMERICA.
MUHAMMED ALI IS NOW FRAIL AND
SUFFERING FROM PARKINSON’S,
BUT THERE ARE MILLIONS WHO STILL
REMEMBER HIM THIS WAY, AS THE
MAN WHO BEAT THE ODDS, AND WHO
WITH HIS FIGHTING AND HIS
TALKING, RECAPTURED THE
ATTENTION OF THE WORLD FOUR
DECADES AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
INVESTIGATORS FROM THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD HAVE
ARRIVED IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
THEY’LL TRY TO DETERMINE WHAT
CAUSED THE CRASH OF THE VIRGIN
"GALACTIC PASSENGER" SPACESHIP
DURING A TEST FLIGHT YESTERDAY.
AND NINA PHAM, ONE OF THE DALLAS
NURSES WHO WAS TREATED FOR AND
RECOVERED FROM EBOLA, WAS
REUNITED WITH HER DOG TODAY.
LIKE HER, IT HAD BEEN
QUARANTINED.
THANKS TO ALL OUR FRIEND HERE IN
BATON ROUGE AT LOUSIANA PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
WE’LL SEE YOU TOMORROW NIGHT
FROM LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK.
I’M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.